api-reference/websocket/position.mdx, before:

---
title: "Position"
---

Receive real-time updates on your positions.

- Topic: `position`
- Stream: Private (`wss://api.ekiden.fi/ws/private`)

## Authenticate

Use authentication flow described in the [Connect](./connect) page.

## Subscribe

```json
{ "op": "subscribe", "args": ["position"], "req_id": "202001" }
```

Ack:

```json
{ "op": "subscribed", "args": ["position"], "req_id": "202001" }
```

## Events

Messages arrive with `op: "event"`, `topic: "position"`, and `data` is an array of `PositionResponse` augmented with PnL fields.

Example:

```json
{
	"op": "event",
	"topic": "position",
	"data": [
		{
			"sid": "0xpos1",
			"market_addr": "0xmarket",
			"user_addr": "0xuser",
			"size": -250,
			"price": 100100,
			"entry_price": 100100,
			"margin": 50000,
			"funding_index": 12345,
			"epoch": 42,
			"is_cross": true,
			"initial_margin": 1200,
			"maintenance_margin": 800,
			"leverage": 10,
			"mark_price": 100200,
			"seq": 999,
			"timestamp": 1681234567,
			"timestamp_ms": 1681234567000,
			"side": "sell",
			"unrealized_pnl": -25,
			"liq_price": 100000
		}
	]
}
```

Field notes:

- `initial_margin`, `maintenance_margin`, `leverage`, and `liq_price` may be null when not computable (e.g., zero size), though typical streaming updates include them.
- `timestamp` (seconds) is deprecated; prefer `timestamp_ms`.

### Fields

| Field | Type | Notes |
|-------|------|-------|
| sid | string | Position identifier (vault address) |
| market_addr | string | Market address |
| user_addr | string | User address |
| size | integer | Signed base units (scaled) |
| price | integer | Entry price alias (scaled) |
| entry_price | integer | Same as `price` for clarity |
| margin | integer | Margin allocated to position |
| funding_index | integer | Position funding index |
| epoch | integer | Internal epoch/version |
| is_cross | boolean | Margin mode |
| initial_margin | integer or null | Required initial margin |
| maintenance_margin | integer or null | Required maintenance margin |
| leverage | integer or null | Notional / margin |
| mark_price | integer | Current mark price |
| seq | integer | Sequence of last update |
| side | string | `buy` or `sell` inferred from size |
| unrealized_pnl | integer | Signed PnL (scaled) |
| liq_price | integer or null | Estimated liquidation price |
| timestamp | integer | Deprecated seconds timestamp |
| timestamp_ms | integer | Milliseconds timestamp (preferred) |

See schema details in [AsyncAPI](../websockets/private): `PositionResponse`.

Commit message:

feat: add inital_margin_mark related docs

api-reference/websocket/position.mdx, after:

---
title: "Position"
---

Receive real-time updates on your positions.

- Topic: `position`
- Stream: Private (`wss://api.ekiden.fi/ws/private`)

## Authenticate

Use authentication flow described in the [Connect](./connect) page.

## Subscribe

```json
{ "op": "subscribe", "args": ["position"], "req_id": "202001" }
```

Ack:

```json
{ "op": "subscribed", "args": ["position"], "req_id": "202001" }
```

## Events

Messages arrive with `op: "event"`, `topic: "position"`, and `data` is an array of `PositionResponse` augmented with PnL fields.

Example:

```json
{
	"op": "event",
	"topic": "position",
	"data": [
		{
			"sid": "0xpos1",
			"market_addr": "0xmarket",
			"user_addr": "0xuser",
			"size": -250,
			"price": 100100,
			"entry_price": 100100,
			"margin": 50000,
			"funding_index": 12345,
			"epoch": 42,
			"is_cross": true,
			"initial_margin": 1200,
			"initial_margin_mark": 1210,
			"maintenance_margin": 800,
			"leverage": 10,
			"mark_price": 100200,
			"seq": 999,
			"timestamp": 1681234567,
			"timestamp_ms": 1681234567000,
			"side": "sell",
			"unrealized_pnl": -25,
			"liq_price": 100000
		}
	]
}
```

Field notes:

- `initial_margin`, `initial_margin_mark`, `maintenance_margin`, `leverage`, and `liq_price` may be null when not computable (e.g., zero size), though typical streaming updates include them.
- `timestamp` (seconds) is deprecated; prefer `timestamp_ms`.
- Semantics: `initial_margin` is entry-notional based IM requirement; `initial_margin_mark` is mark-notional based IM requirement. `margin` is the actual collateral assigned to the position (quote units, scaled). In cross mode, it represents the portion of account equity allocated to this position for risk and liquidation.

### Fields

| Field | Type | Notes |
|-------|------|-------|
| sid | string | Position identifier (vault address) |
| market_addr | string | Market address |
| user_addr | string | User address |
| size | integer | Signed base units (scaled) |
| price | integer | Entry price alias (scaled) |
| entry_price | integer | Same as `price` for clarity |
| margin | integer | Margin allocated to position (quote units, scaled) |
| funding_index | integer | Position funding index |
| epoch | integer | Internal epoch/version |
| is_cross | boolean | Margin mode |
| initial_margin | integer or null | Required initial margin (entry notional) |
| initial_margin_mark | integer or null | Required initial margin (mark notional) |
| maintenance_margin | integer or null | Required maintenance margin |
| leverage | integer or null | Entry notional / margin |
| mark_price | integer | Current mark price |
| seq | integer | Sequence of last update |
| side | string | `buy` or `sell` inferred from size |
| unrealized_pnl | integer | Signed PnL (scaled) |
| liq_price | integer or null | Estimated liquidation price |
| timestamp | integer | Deprecated seconds timestamp |
| timestamp_ms | integer | Milliseconds timestamp (preferred) |

See schema details in [AsyncAPI](../websockets/private): `PositionResponse`.
